## [play here](https://p27.ca/anthropocene/)

# About the Project
_Anthropocene_ is an "interactive experience" I made as a final class project. It's a brief tour through various things I think signify the Anthropocene: Resources, power, and the important event that started it. The project mostly explains itself as you click through the various dioramas. It was made in a professional game engine, Unity. Obviously, I did plenty of research on my topic, but I also got a chance to create a full interactive project. I made my own models in Fusion 360, tweaked others' in Blender,  and brought it all together in Unity. Some things I definitely could have done differently. For instance, instead of finding a built in tool, I did **all** of the animations in code, usually graphing out a function in Desmos and then translating it. The way the camera rotates around the globe took **forever** to get perfect. I also think some things could use a little more tweaking. I love the "low-poly" art style I went for, but I wish I worked in just a little bit of colour instead of fully grey. I also wish I found a better solution to make the slides' text visible. Maybe a blurred background? I'm not sure. Regardless, although it was a little bit frusturating at times, I learned a lot from this project, and I hope you enjoy it.

# Process
- Originally, I wanted to make a more typical type of game, where you controlled a human walking through some kind of barren earth destroyed by human activity. After trying it out, I realized that it didn't convey the scale of the Anthropocene: I wanted to show the earth, forests, buildings, etc. from a bird's eye view instead of simply walking through them.
- My progress submission was my trial. I built a title screen that animated from a far-out view to something closer, and you could click through different longitude points. I decided around now I wanted to focus more on creating a polished, coherent product over one with lots of content.
- I still needed content. The first thing that comes to mind when I think "Anthropocene" is pollution. I 3D modelled a coal smokestack and talked about it. The smoke particles took a good bit of tweaking to get to a point I liked.
- I really liked the smoke, and decided all the dioramas should have some sort of "feature", weither it be the deforestation or just the rotating bomb. 
- After adding 3 things, I was in a decent state for content and could move on to tweaking the animation and "continuity". I nearly perfected the slide transitions but the colours still needed some work.
- Then, oil. I was ready to submit after a little more tweaking.